README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <h1 align="center">gym-ignition-models</h1>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://pypi.org/project/gym-ignition-models/">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/gym-ignition-models.svg" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://pypi.org/project/gym-ignition-models/">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/gym-ignition-models.svg" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://pypi.org/project/gym-ignition-models/">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/status/gym-ignition-models.svg" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://pypi.org/project/gym-ignition-models/">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/format/gym-ignition-models.svg" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://pypi.org/project/gym-ignition-models/">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/gym-ignition-models.svg" />
  </a>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <h4 align="center">Robot models for <a href="https://github.com/robotology/gym-ignition">gym-ignition</a></h4>
</p>

These models have been mainly tuned and tested to work in [Ignition Gazebo](https://ignitionrobotics.org/).

### Setup

This repository can be installed with the `pip` package manager as follows:

```bash
# From PyPI
pip3 install gym-ignition-models

# From the repository (always containing the most recent changes)
pip3 install git+https://github.com/dic-iit/gym-ignition-models.git
```

Only GNU/Linux distributions are currently supported.

### Configuration

#### Standalone usage

If you use Ignition Gazebo, you need to specify where the models and their dependent resources are located in the filesystem.
The simulator reads the `IGN_GAZEBO_RESOURCE_PATH` environment variable.

Execute the following commands from outside the directory where you cloned this repository to temporarily configure your environment:

```sh
PKG_DIR=$(python -c "import gym_ignition_models, inspect, os; print(os.path.dirname(inspect.getfile(gym_ignition_models)))")
export IGN_GAZEBO_RESOURCE_PATH=$PKG_DIR:$IGN_GAZEBO_RESOURCE_PATH
```

If you want to make this change persistent, add the lines above to your `~/.bashrc`.

**Note:** waiting an [upstream fix](https://github.com/osrf/sdformat/issues/227), you also need to add
to `IGN_GAZEBO_RESOURCE_PATH` all the directories containing model's meshes.

**Note:** Alternatively, instead of using `IGN_GAZEBO_RESOURCE_PATH`, you can use `SDF_PATH` for the models and
`IGN_FILE_PATH` for the meshes.

#### Python usage

The environment variables are automatically exported when the package is imported.
If your application imports also the `scenario` package, make sure to import `gym_ignition_models` first.

### Usage

You can use these models either with the standalone simulators, or find and import them in your Python code. Here below an Python example of the utility functions provided by the package:

```python
import gym_ignition_models as m

print(f"Models have been installed in {m.get_models_path()}")
print(f"Available robots: {m.get_robot_names()}")
print("\nModel files:")

for robot_name in m.get_robot_names():
    print(f"{robot_name}: {m.get_model_file(robot_name)}")
```

### Supported models

| Robot Name | Screenshot |
| ---------- | ---------- |
| `ground_plane` | <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/469199/73735685-f3fa4b80-473f-11ea-897d-28fcac85f8a6.png" height="300"> |
| `cartpole` | <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/469199/73771326-7570ce80-477e-11ea-82bc-d160d4bb88b8.png" height="300"> |
| `pendulum` | <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/469199/73772768-1b253d00-4781-11ea-88e7-b21340351549.png" height="300"> |
| `iCubGazeboV2_5` </br> `iCubGazeboSimpleCollisionsV2_5` | <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/469199/73731308-90205480-4738-11ea-876c-e9be502829ef.png" height="300"> |
| `panda` | <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/469199/73738280-7f75db80-4744-11ea-805c-318e3b064847.png" height="300"> |
| `character` | <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/469199/75965269-d8ae6780-5ec8-11ea-9712-605b600bf3b2.png" height="300"> |

Commit message:

Update README and setup.py, add LICENSE

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <h1 align="center">gym-ignition-models</h1>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://pypi.org/project/gym-ignition-models/">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/gym-ignition-models.svg" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://pypi.org/project/gym-ignition-models/">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/gym-ignition-models.svg" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://pypi.org/project/gym-ignition-models/">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/status/gym-ignition-models.svg" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://pypi.org/project/gym-ignition-models/">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/format/gym-ignition-models.svg" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://pypi.org/project/gym-ignition-models/">
  <img src="https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/gym-ignition-models.svg" />
  </a>
  <a href="https://github.com/robotology/gym-ignition-models/actions/workflows/ci_cd.yml">
  <img src="https://github.com/robotology/gym-ignition-models/actions/workflows/ci_cd.yml/badge.svg" />
  </a>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <h4 align="center">Robot models for <a href="https://github.com/robotology/gym-ignition">gym-ignition</a></h4>
</p>

These models have been mainly tuned and tested to work in [Ignition Gazebo](https://ignitionrobotics.org/).

## Installation

This repository can be installed with the `pip` package manager as follows:

```bash
# From PyPI (release versions)
pip3 install gym-ignition-models

# From PyPI (pre-release versions)
pip3 install --pre gym-ignition-models

# From the repository
pip3 install git+https://github.com/robotology/gym-ignition-models.git
```

Only GNU/Linux distributions are currently supported.

## Configuration

### Standalone usage

If you use Ignition Gazebo, you need to specify where the models and their dependent resources are located in the filesystem.
The simulator reads the `IGN_GAZEBO_RESOURCE_PATH` environment variable.

Execute the following commands from outside the directory where you cloned this repository to temporarily configure your environment:

```sh
PKG_DIR=$(python -c "import gym_ignition_models, inspect, os; print(os.path.dirname(inspect.getfile(gym_ignition_models)))")
export IGN_GAZEBO_RESOURCE_PATH=$PKG_DIR:$IGN_GAZEBO_RESOURCE_PATH
```

If you want to make this change persistent, add the lines above to your `~/.bashrc`.

**Note:** waiting an [upstream fix](https://github.com/osrf/sdformat/issues/227), you also need to add
to `IGN_GAZEBO_RESOURCE_PATH` all the directories containing model's meshes.

**Note:** Alternatively, instead of using `IGN_GAZEBO_RESOURCE_PATH`, you can use `SDF_PATH` for the models and
`IGN_FILE_PATH` for the meshes.

### Python usage

The environment variables are automatically exported when the package is imported.
If your application imports also the `scenario` package, make sure to import `gym_ignition_models` first.

## Usage

You can use these models either with the standalone Ignition Gazebo simulator, or find and import them in your Python code. 
Here below a Python example of the utility functions provided by the package:

```python
import gym_ignition_models as m

print(f"Models have been installed in: {m.get_models_path()}")
print(f"Available robots: {m.get_robot_names()}")
print()
print("Model files:")

for robot_name in m.get_robot_names():
    print(f"{robot_name}: {m.get_model_file(robot_name)}")
```

The package also includes a `get_model_resource` function that provides string, URDF, or SDF descriptions of the supported models.
It converts the descriptions internally, if needed.

## Supported models

| Robot Name | Screenshot |
| ---------- | ---------- |
| `ground_plane` | <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/469199/73735685-f3fa4b80-473f-11ea-897d-28fcac85f8a6.png" height="300"> |
| `cartpole` | <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/469199/73771326-7570ce80-477e-11ea-82bc-d160d4bb88b8.png" height="300"> |
| `pendulum` | <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/469199/73772768-1b253d00-4781-11ea-88e7-b21340351549.png" height="300"> |
| `iCubGazeboV2_5` </br> `iCubGazeboSimpleCollisionsV2_5` | <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/469199/73731308-90205480-4738-11ea-876c-e9be502829ef.png" height="300"> |
| `panda` | <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/469199/73738280-7f75db80-4744-11ea-805c-318e3b064847.png" height="300"> |
| `character` | <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/469199/75965269-d8ae6780-5ec8-11ea-9712-605b600bf3b2.png" height="300"> |

## License

[LGPL v2.1](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/lgpl-2.1/) or any later version.
